---
layout: post
title: Pre-Coding phase & Week 1
date: 2014-05-25 16:27:31
disqus: y
---

### Getting started

Now that our project target is set of extending the current implementation of AChecker to validate dynamic HTML/DOM pages, it was the next
immediate priority to get familiar with the current static implementation of AChecker.  

---

### Gist of Code Base absorbed

Basically, this week comprised mainly of going through major and critical parts of the codebase as well as the documentation given at `AChecker/documentation`.  


Some of the major parts covered through are:

- Guidelines (Creating and Reviewing them)
- Checks (Creating and Editing Checks)  
    - These checks are performed to validate the check according to the guideline mentioned. The class BasicFunctions API provided was gone through 
completely and understood.
- Initialization of AChecker when it starts, loading configuration, database connection, loading constants, initializing session and user session
- In addition to this, a couple days of some other files and their inherited PHPs.

Not mentioning much about the code snippets gone through here, because its pretty much the giant codebase, however, I've got myself a basic gist oof what magic AChecker does behind the curtains. Also there are some here and there's about the code which I still need to resolve, but in due time they will be overcomed mostly.

Well, as its said, the codebase understanding gets on better and better after every revision you go through. Yes, sure thing! I plan to go on
further everytime to get a more better hold on the core parts of the code.  

---

### About the Library to be used

As mentioned, I`m in touch with the Jasmine library, its usage and utility provided by it. However, during the pre-coding phase, I came to have known Jasmine closely, and a discussion regarding it with the mentor seems apt at this point.  

Framework, structure and plan for implementation to boil down next week, stay tuned! :)

